The next thing we're gonna add to our
small library project is testing we're
gonna have to install jest.
And we'll install Babel as well.
The reason we need Babel
in addition to jest,
is we want to be able to run TypeScript
test files like test files that
are TS files without having to go
through an explicit build step.
Babel helps us sort of do that on
the fly where we can just run Jest and
Babel will take care of transpiling
them into JavaScript and
then Jest can run the tests and
we should be all good.
So we have to install a couple
things in order to make this work.
We're going to run yarn Add-d
jest Babel/ core Babel preset
env Babel preset typescript,
just making sure I got all those and I did
We should see some stuff pop up here.
Boom, there it goes.
Again, these are new, right?
This is our nice yarn Plugin for
TypeScript that's bringing in those ad
types packages for us automatically,
it's certainly not harmful I'm
kind of just using Babel here as
a tool I'm not coding against it,
I don't really need these types
you can safely delete those, but
it's nice that it sort of
assumes that you want them and
then you can sort of rip them
out if you if you know for
sure how you're using this thing and
you don't need the types.
So okay, we have just we
have the Bible stuff great.
We next need to make a test file.
So we're gonna make a folder called tests,
and
then we're going to create
a file in that folder,
Index.test.ts, and
look at that, we have a file.
We're gonna go back to the website
cuz I've provided the tests for you.
Here it is, index.test.ts.
Paste that in and hit Save.
So if we want to look at these,
here are some tests like a test module for
the deferred class, where you know,
we make sure that it creates an instance
of a promise and resolves the promise
when we call resolve and rejects.
The problem is when we call reject and
should have the methods resolve and
reject present.
So now that I've put tests like that in so
that it's more obvious when [LAUGH] there
are failures, like I've dropped a method
or something like that, and sorry,
we can delete this comment at the top.
That's that's not super necessary.
Yeah, we'll fix that problem in the sec.
And then here's the string
of my error function.
We'd have a bunch of test cases for that.
I'm just showing you enough of this.
So, you know that it's like semi,
semi real.
All right, we can close that.
Now what's going on here?
Yes Lint is unhappy with us.
And it's saying that it
was configured to run on.
Test slash index test TS but the tsconfig
that we're pointing to doesn't
include this file, we're missing
this file like the tsconfig, right?
It's true, it doesn't cover anything.
There's no tests folder here.
We're going to write a different
tsconfig for our tests,
and this error should go away.
There's something we need to do
in our original tsconfig, and
that's add one option here.
Forget where it is, so I might just
add it up at the top, there it is,
composite true.
So, this is a really cool option
that lets us have not just
multiple tsconfig files, but
you sort of get pre built types and
type information that can apply
to subparts of the project and
other subparts of the project.
So you're going to see a TS
build info file pop up.
And this lets you not only have
differences in configuration throughout
your project, but
really a much more modular architecture,
where you don't have to pay the full
price of building your whole library.
You could just rebuild the tests or
rebuild the source code,
and it could be nice and fast.
Yeah, so we're going to,
this is called project references, right?
Like, we can refer to another project.
In this case,
we're going to have the TypeScript, sorry,
the tests area subproject refer to
a reference of the outer library,
and it'll work out well for us.
This will become more clear once
we put the other piece in place.
Now, in our tests folder,
we should create a TS config, and
this one's gonna be much simpler.
We're going to write this one by hand.
We'll just start with an empty object.
The first thing we need is extends.
And we're going to point to,
is this right?
No, it's only one set of dot dots.
So we're going to go from the tests
folder back to the library's root folder.
And we'll say,
we extend this tsconfig.json.
This means that all of the strict type
checking settings we have in there.
The skip lib check thing.
Like all the things we set up, they
will come along for the ride for free.
Now we're going to define a reference,
a project reference, and
this is what that looks like.
So what we're saying here
is that in our tests,
we want to import from something
as if it's a different library and
the name of that thing is chat std lib and
where we can find the code for
those imports is in that source folder.
So this is kind of cool because
it lets us write our tests.
In a very similar way to the way you'd
like externally refer to this to this
library instead of having to go like dot
dot dot dot dot dot all the way out and
then sort of go into the source folder So
that's cool all right a couple compiler
options we have to define here.
And the first one is types.
We want to make sure that we
allow just types in here.
And the second one is rootdir.
We're going to say that dot dot.
Here's the reason.
Are we getting the problem here?
Actually, maybe that's correct.
We'll see where we're going here.
It is, I should have it like this.
Sorry, for the confusion there.
This is not pointing to the source folder.
This is pointing to where we
can find the package JSON and
the root of the project,
the package manifest.
We're going to use the main
field in our package JSON here.
This will be where we're
getting our code from.
The point of this,
what we're trying to accomplish,
Going back to this tsconfig, we just want
to refer to this the same way a consumer
of this library would refer to this.
All right, rootdir.
This needs to be the parent folder, and
that's because the root directory has
to contain all the TypeScript files,
like the source files that we're
kind of compiling against.
And we're gonna be referring to
stuff in that source folder,
I mean through the reference here.
But we want sort of the outer
project to be considered the rooter.
And then finally we need to include.
And that's just gonna be dot everything
in the test folder is included like and
what that means is this TS config applies
to this folder all of its sub folders,
alright one more thing we need
to do before the test and
that's take care of Babel so
we're going to do.
Make a file in the root of
our project called .babelrc.
And what we're trying to accomplish
here is we want Babel to take care of
converting that TypeScript to
JavaScript behind the scenes so
we don't have a separate building our
test step, which is kind of annoying.
We can just have these TS files
to just run in jest we set this
up once we forget about it,
and it should all still work.
So I have a babelrc file now,
I'm gonna go back to the course website so
I can get the contents of that file.
It's right here.
So we're just bringing
in some presets here.
So we're saying, we're targeting note 18.
So that's gonna affect how
Babel transforms our code.
It's gonna make sure that if we have
any language features that we use,
which are not available in node 18,
it'll compile those down and,
introduce polyfills where it has to.
And then this preset here is what tells
Babel to convert the TypeScript to
JavaScript behind the scenes,
you won't see the JS files.
It's just happening to your
benefit automatically.
And this is it,
we're ready to run yarn test now.
And look at that,we have
some tests running.
This is a good lesson
here of auto-formatting.
So we can see that, okay,
the tests are running.
Some of them are passing.
These two are failing.
And in both cases,
there's a big little piece of white
space preceding those,
those lines of text.
So whenever I see something like this,
the first thing I think of
is has something added space
in a tagged template string,
thinking it can safely indent,
you know a word and in doing so
it's like added spaces to the string So,
let's go check for
that first in our tests, and
we can, I'll look at this in a sec.
>> I don't know if it's
formatted differently for you.
I had a couple of leading white spaces
inside of stringify error value.
>> That's probably it.
Thanks for catching that.
Yeah, it's folded, I didn't see it.
There it is, that's it .
It's this right here It's
outside of the dollar sign.
That is our culprit And
they'll all pass now, nope,
they won't we have to build it and
then it'll pass
Great, okay, so
clearly our tests are working effectively.
We check down the bug, we fix it.
So we had a question in chat asking us,
why do we need this babelrc?
If we were to say we want to
write our tests in JavaScript.
Like Jest understands these
JavaScript files, right?
If you look in Jest's documentation,
it'll tell you, name of testfile.test.js.
Jest does not understand files,
like tests that are written
in TypeScript itself.
Now you have a different option than
what we set up here If you could have
a separate step where you'd create,
I don't know a folder called tests dash
build, and you could have TypeScript,
compile your tests, and then produce
the resultant JavaScript jest tests,
which just would be happy to run for you.
This is an alternative approach where
we're using Babel to sort of Transform
the TypeScript into the JavaScript just
once on the fly behind the scenes,
you don't have to think about it.
You don't have stuff in your folder
where you have to worry about like,
I just changed my tests.
I have to build them again,
so that I can then run them.
You could write scripts around this and
stuff but like,
what you're effectively doing there is the
same thing that Babel is doing for you.
It's making sure that you can write,
just like, you know,
the reason you use Babel for library
code or app code, you can use modern
language features, maybe even things
that Node 18 doesn't support yet.
You can use TypeScript, and
then Babel is doing the job of taking
that You know, doing the type checking,
emitting JavaScript behind the scenes
can think of it maybe maybe it's
in a temp folder somewhere not
not really important where it is.
Then just sucks that in and
it's the JavaScript that just runs
it's actually not an attempt folder.
Jest knows how to talk to Babel, and so
it's just sort of part of an in-memory,
you know, build pipeline.
So by the time Jest is running a test,
it knows it's not like
loading a file from disk.
It's taking the output from Babel,
and it's doing that.
And then why we had babelrc here?
Babel can be used for a lot of things.
We're using it for
two specific things here.
One is down leveling our code so that
anything that we would write which is only
supported in node 20 or node 20,
yeah, like 21 or whatever it is,
it's all sort of simplified down
to what node 18 could handle.
An example of this would be if
we used private static fields
like hashtag fields,
that's an ES 2022 feature.
I don't believe Node 18 supports that.
So this will take care of compiling
that down into something runnable and
then this is telling Babel, all right,
after you've compiled things down.
Also strip away the types,
like do the type checking and
then strip away the types and
you should be good.
And Rugmat is asking on Twitch,
does Yarn just automatically run Babel or
how does that work?
It's Jest that knows how
to interact with Babel.
If Jest finds that Babel is
present in the project And
that there's a .babelrc file, it will call
into Babel like it knows how to do that.
But it relies on Babel to do
the TypeScript sort of inline
compile on the fly.
Yeah, and so another question we got,
we just we just had to do a build
to make sure our tests pass.
This is proof, that references kind of
operate the way the way I said they do,
which means we're pointing to
a package JSON effectively like
a folder in which you
can find a package JSON.
So the fact that we needed to build
it means that when we're referring
to when we're running our tests,
we're pointing at the dist folder.
We're not pointing at our source code
TypeScript, we're loading things from
the dist folder and we're benefiting
from these declaration files here.
This is our type information.
I wonder if this illusion
is not too clever here.
Now, it knows the source code is there.
It must be in this,
like, tsbuildinfo file,
where this is a bunch of hashed files and
things like that.
So, yeah,
it's probably mapping through this,
kind of like the way a source map would.
To find that like index.ts is ultimately
where this comes from because this
stuff in the build folder
came from index.ts.
But like if we were to delete
stuff from the dist folder,
our tests would not be happy.
That's where they're
actually running code.
Which is cool because like we're actually
running our public API surface not a bunch
of stuff you know that's internally in
specific files it keeps us you know
this is great for like integration testing
where you really want to get an accurate
representation of like What is this
library look like what does it look like
from the outside world what's its
contract with the outside world and
that's what we're testing against here